# Countable

## An app to assist with field behavioral analysis

This app was created using Expo CLI for React Native.

You need to have the following tools installed on your development machine to run and test a React Native app with Expo CLI:

1. Node.js LTS release
2. Git
3. for iOS: Watchman

You can use Expo CLI without installation by leveraging npx, a Node.js package manager. For exmaple, to see a list of available commands in Expo CLI, open a terminal and type

npx expo -h

For further information on configuring your workspace, please see [docs.expo.dev]

Note: Apps can be tested using the Expo Go app, either on a physical device or a virtual device.

---

To get the project running, you will need to run the command "npm install" in your project directory to generate the node_modules folder.

---

## How to Use this App

Countable is intended to be used for field-based behavioral analysis or research. It can be used in a clinical context, a research context, or for field observations done by social workers or other professionals.

### Set Up

In order to run an observation session, the minimum requirements are:

1.  to have at least one subject defined/created (the subject is the person being observed)
2.  to create a "session template" that lists the behaviors to be observed, and the length of the observation session (this requires at least one behavior to be defined/created)

Subjects/clients can be added within the "subjects" screen.

behaviors can be created within templates or within the 'behaviors' screen, however they can only be used within templates. At this time, the app does not support running a session that is not tied to a template.

### Running an Observation Session

To start a session, press the "start a new session" button from the home screen. From here you will give the session a name, choose the subject to be observed, and choose which template to use. You can add optional notes on the session's environment or any other notes associated to the session here.

When you press "start session" you will be directed to the "active session" page; a count-down timer shows how much time is left in your session. Buttons can be pressed to record when the subject exhibits your chosen behaviors, either as a duration of time, or as a counter. For example:

1. duration of time - if you are recording how much time a subject spends doing an activity, say pacing around the room, when you press that behavior's button it will begin recording time and a time-stamp for the start of recording. A time counter will be visible while this is recording. When you press the button again it will stop recording the time, and save another tiem-stamp.
2. discrete counter - if you are countingh how often a subject does something, such as standing up from their seat, every time you press the "stand up" button the counter will increase by 1.

### Reviewing Session Data

To view the data generated by past sessions, press the "view data" button on the home screen. This will allow you to select data by subject, by date, or by template.

Data can be exported or imported via csv file.

### Feature Requests

Do you have feature requests or feedback about this app? Would you like to be a contributing developer? Contact anyone on the current development team, we would love to hear from you.
